---
title: Sting 0.06 released
author: Sting Project
authorURL: https://github.com/sting-ioc
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/sting-ioc/sting/compare/v0.05...v0.06)

Changes in this release:

* If an output method on a `@Injector` annotated type returns a collection then it will now return the same collection if invoked multiple times.
* Improve the overview documentation.
* Add some basic documentation comparing the features of Sting relative to Dagger.
* Cache whether a fragment has been resolved across processor rounds. This avoids recalculating the "resolved" state of a fragment when it has already calculated as resolved within the current round or in a prior round.
* Upgrade the `org.realityforge.proton` artifacts to version `0.41`.
* Fix a bug where a fragment has not been "resolved" and thus processed before the annotation processor attempts to generate the injector that uses the fragment. This scenario can occur when another annotation processor is responsible for creating the fragment and the other annotation processor creates the fragment in a later round.
* Add the option of generating a [.dot](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DOT_(graph_description_language)) report that represents the component graph. The report is generated by the annotation processor when the injector implementation is generated and the annotation parameter `sting.emit_dot_reports` is set to `true`. This is typically done by passing the `-Asting.emit_dot_reports=true` parameter to the javac compiler.
* Fix the ordering of node creation in an injector to ensure dependencies are always created first. Prior to this the ordering was based on maximum depth of the node in any dependency chain which could result in attempts to create nodes with dependencies that had not been created yet.
