---
title: Sting 0.07 released
author: Sting Project
authorURL: https://github.com/sting-ioc
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/sting-ioc/sting/compare/v0.06...v0.07)

Changes in this release:

* Generate an error if a type annotated with `@Injectable` or a method in a `@Fragment` annotated type is annotated with `@Named` and specifies zero types with a `@Typed` annotation. There is no reason to specify a qualifier if the binding has no published types.
* Move all of the TODOs out of the project and into the Github issue tracker. Setup some milestones so the issues can be categorized according to expected releases.
* Dramatically improve the usability of the documentation infrastructure to make writing documentation easier. This involved using java-style api links, making api docs available when running docusaurus locally, removing historical cruft from earlier projects that used the current docusaurus infrastructure.
* Start to add some basic documentation on the following topics:
  - Typing of published services
  - Qualifying of consumed and published services
  - Passing services into the injector
  - Including one injector in another injector
  - Annotation processor options
* Fix a bug in the annotation processor which would stop Sting loading descriptor data from the platform or boot classpath. In an ideal world, there should be no sting annotated classes loaded from the platform classpath but some tools (i.e. the IDEA javac process invoked to compile test dependencies) will add dependencies to the platform classpath. As a result Sting has been updated to support this usecase.
* Improve the grammar of the error messages when the Sting annotation processor can find a .class file but can not find the expected descriptor file.
* Add additional debug messages to the Sting annotation processor that describe why a type is not yet resolved. This can help track down errors relating to unresolved injectors.
* Add some additional nullability annotations in the generated fragment that supports injecting injectors in other injectors.
