---
title: Annotation Processor Options
---

The annotation processor supports several different options that can change the behaviour of the annotation
processor in various ways. Options are typically passed to the javac compiler on the command line using a
syntax `-Akey=value` although other tools may support slightly different syntax. The table below describes
the options supported by the annotation processor.

<table>
  <caption align="bottom">Options supported by the annotation processor</caption>
  <thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Key</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>sting.debug</td>
    <td>
    A flag that will enable additional debug output if set to <code>true</code>. This is a useful option when trying
    to debug problems related to unresolved injectors.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>sting.emit_dot_reports</td>
    <td>
    A flag that will enable the generation of GraphViz .dot reports if set to <code>true</code>. This is a useful
    option when trying to understand complex or large component graphs. See the <a href="graphviz_integration.html">
    GraphViz Integration</a> for further details.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>sting.defer.errors</td>
    <td>
    Setting this option to <code>false</code> will cause Sting to halt at the first error it encounters.
    Otherwise Sting will emit the errors as warnings and generate an error when the compile completes. This
    is useful when doing full recompiles in code bases that potentially have many errors within them.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>sting.defer.unresolved</td>
    <td>
    Sting will detect whether a type is fully "resolved" before attempting to process the type. A type is
    considered unresolved if all types it references exist. This may not be true when a type references
    types generated by other annotation processors. This can be disabled by setting this option to
    <code>false</code> but this can lead to processor errors and should only be done if this is not a
    problem in a particular code base.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>sting.verbose_out_of_round.errors</td>
    <td>
    If code is not being compiled in the current round causes an error to be generated then the supporting
    tooling may not be able to link to the source. This primarily impacts integration with some IDEs. As a
    result Sting generates more descriptions describing the location of errors including a snippet of the
    code that generated the error. This can be disabled by setting this option to <code>false</code>.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>sting.emit_json_descriptors</td>
    <td>
    A flag that will cause the annotation processor to write json descriptors (as well as binary descriptors)
    if set to <code>true</code>. This is primarily used when developing Sting.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>sting.verify_descriptors</td>
    <td>
    A flag that will cause the annotation processor to verify binary descriptors after writing the descriptor
    if set to <code>true</code>. This is primarily used when developing Sting.
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>
