docs/typing.md, before:

---
title: Customizing Service Types
---

When a component is included in an injector, it is published with zero or more "services". A service consists
of a java type and an optional qualifier. By default, Sting publishes a single service with the java type is
equal to the type that is annotated by the {@api_url: @Injectable::Injectable} annotation or the return type
of the provider method. Sting makes it possible to customize the service types published by using the
{@api_url: @Typed::Typed} annotation.

The {@api_url: @Typed::Typed} annotation can be applied to either the injectable type or the provider method.
Zero or more types can be specified and thus a single component can publish multiple services or no services.

It should be noted that if a component does not publish any services then it must be annotated with
{@api_url: @Eager::Eager}. Otherwise the component could not be depended upon by other components and nor would
the component be eagerly created and thus would never be instantiated.

The easiest way to illustrate how this would work is to present some basic examples.

<nav class="page-toc">

<!-- toc -->

* <a>Examples</a>
  - [`@Typed` on `@Injectable` types](#typed-on-injectable-types)
  - [`@Typed` on provider methods](#typed-on-provider-methods)
  - [Combining `@Typed` and `@Named`](#combining-typed-and-named)

<!-- tocstop -->

</nav>

## `@Typed` on `@Injectable` types

Consider a scenario where you have a single component that provides multiple services. The following
example demonstrates the `MessageService` that publishes two types. The `MessageSender` type is published
to enable some components in the application to send messages while the `MessageBroker` type is published
so that other components can receive messages.

{@file_content: file=sting/doc/examples/typing/MessageService.java start_line=@Injectable include_start_line=true}

It is easy to imagine that we would have another component `LoginService` that performs the asynchronous
login action and sends events as it progresses through each step of the process. This service would depend upon
the `MessageSender` type. For example:

{@file_content: file=sting/doc/examples/typing/LoginService.java start_line=@Injectable include_start_line=true}

It also easy to imagine that there are multiple components within the application that will add listeners without
ever needing to send messages. For example:

{@file_content: file=sting/doc/examples/typing/UserHeaderItem.java start_line=@Injectable include_start_line=true}

## `@Typed` on provider methods

The {@api_url: @Typed::Typed} annotation can be applied to provider methods with the same impacts as when
it is applied to an injectable type. We could re-implement the above example but instead of using types
annotated by the {@api_url: @Injectable::Injectable} annotation we could use use provider methods. Such an
example would look like:

{@file_content: file=sting/doc/examples/typing/ApplicationFragment.java start_line=@Fragment include_start_line=true}

## Combining `@Typed` and `@Named`

The {@api_url: @Typed::Typed} annotation can be combined with the {@api_url: @Named::Named} annotation.
The qualifier specified by the {@api_url: @Named::Named} annotation is applied to all the types published
by the component.

The example below publishes the component of type `MessageService` with two service interfaces; a service
of type `MessageBroker` with the qualifier `system` and a service of type `MessageSender` with the qualifier
`system`.

{@file_content: file=sting/doc/examples/typing/NamedApplicationFragment.java start_line=@Fragment include_start_line=true}

Commit message:

Remove usage of api_url filter and use link filter instead

docs/typing.md, after:

---
title: Customizing Service Types
---

When a component is included in an injector, it is published with zero or more "services". A service consists
of a java type and an optional qualifier. By default, Sting publishes a single service with the java type is
equal to the type that is annotated by the {@link: sting.Injectable @Injectable} annotation or the return type
of the provider method. Sting makes it possible to customize the service types published by using the
{@link: sting.Typed @Typed} annotation.

The {@link: sting.Typed @Typed} annotation can be applied to either the injectable type or the provider method.
Zero or more types can be specified and thus a single component can publish multiple services or no services.

It should be noted that if a component does not publish any services then it must be annotated with
{@link: sting.Eager @Eager}. Otherwise the component could not be depended upon by other components and nor would
the component be eagerly created and thus would never be instantiated.

The easiest way to illustrate how this would work is to present some basic examples.

<nav class="page-toc">

<!-- toc -->

* <a>Examples</a>
  - [`@Typed` on `@Injectable` types](#typed-on-injectable-types)
  - [`@Typed` on provider methods](#typed-on-provider-methods)
  - [Combining `@Typed` and `@Named`](#combining-typed-and-named)

<!-- tocstop -->

</nav>

## `@Typed` on `@Injectable` types

Consider a scenario where you have a single component that provides multiple services. The following
example demonstrates the `MessageService` that publishes two types. The `MessageSender` type is published
to enable some components in the application to send messages while the `MessageBroker` type is published
so that other components can receive messages.

{@file_content: file=sting/doc/examples/typing/MessageService.java start_line=@Injectable include_start_line=true}

It is easy to imagine that we would have another component `LoginService` that performs the asynchronous
login action and sends events as it progresses through each step of the process. This service would depend upon
the `MessageSender` type. For example:

{@file_content: file=sting/doc/examples/typing/LoginService.java start_line=@Injectable include_start_line=true}

It also easy to imagine that there are multiple components within the application that will add listeners without
ever needing to send messages. For example:

{@file_content: file=sting/doc/examples/typing/UserHeaderItem.java start_line=@Injectable include_start_line=true}

## `@Typed` on provider methods

The {@link: sting.Typed @Typed} annotation can be applied to provider methods with the same impacts as when
it is applied to an injectable type. We could re-implement the above example but instead of using types
annotated by the {@link: sting.Injectable @Injectable} annotation we could use use provider methods. Such an
example would look like:

{@file_content: file=sting/doc/examples/typing/ApplicationFragment.java start_line=@Fragment include_start_line=true}

## Combining `@Typed` and `@Named`

The {@link: sting.Typed @Typed} annotation can be combined with the {@link: sting.Named @Named} annotation.
The qualifier specified by the {@link: sting.Named @Named} annotation is applied to all the types published
by the component.

The example below publishes the component of type `MessageService` with two service interfaces; a service
of type `MessageBroker` with the qualifier `system` and a service of type `MessageSender` with the qualifier
`system`.

{@file_content: file=sting/doc/examples/typing/NamedApplicationFragment.java start_line=@Fragment include_start_line=true}
